Welcome to “Introduction to R and RStudio.” After watching this video, you will be able to explain what is R, list R capabilities, describe RStudio environment, and list the R libraries for data science. R is a statistical programming language. It is a powerful tool for data processing
and manipulation, statistical inference, data analysis, and machine learning algorithm. Based on 2017 analysis, it was found
that R is used most by academics, healthcare, and the government. R supports importing of data from
different sources like flat files, databases, web, and statistical
software such as SPSS and STATA. R is a preferred language for some data
scientists because R functions are easy to use. It is also known for producing great
visualizations and contains packages to handle data analysis without the
need to install additional libraries. A popular integrated development environment for developing and running the R language
source code and programs is RStudio. It improves and increases
productivity with the R language. R studio includes: a syntax-highlighting editor that
supports direct code execution and a place where you can keep a record of your work, a Console for typing R commands, a workspace and History tab that
shows the list of R objects you created during your R session and
the history of all previous commands, and finally, Files, Plots,
Packages, and Help tabs. The Files tab shows files
in your working directory. The Plots tab displays the
history of plots you have created. You can also export plots to PDF or image files. The Packages tab displays external R
packages available on your local computer. And, the Help tab provides help
on R resources, R studio support, packages, and many more. If R is your tool choice for data science, here are some popular R libraries
available in the Data Science community: dplyr for manipulating data, stringr for manipulating strings, ggplot for visualizing data, and caret for machine learning. To get you up and learning quickly,
we have provided you with an R Studio virtual environment as part
of the Skills Network Labs. This virtual lab environment is designed to
assist you to easily practice what you learn in the course and skip the need to create
an account or download or install anything. In this video, you learned the capabilities of R and
its uses in Data Science, the RStudio interface for running R codes, and popular R packages for Data Science.